---
sidebar_position: 17
---
# [8.17] Speed Limits

1. No driver may operate a vehicle at a speed greater than the posted speed limit.
2. No person shall drive a vehicle upon a highway at a speed greater than is reasonable or prudent having due regard for weather, visibility, the traffic on, and the surface and width of, the highway, and in no event at a speed which endangers the safety of persons or property.
3. When no speed limit is posted the following speed limits apply:
    - 15 mph in any alley way
    - 25 mph on any residential street
    - 45 mph on any single lane city street & dirt roads in the county
    - 50 mph on any double lane + major city street
    - 65 mph on any route outside of the city
    - 80 mph on any state highway, freeway, interstate, or US highway

4. A driver who fails to show a use of fair judgment in their speed when driving in poor conditions, such as poor weather, or on unpaved, slick, or damaged roads.
5. No person shall drive upon a highway at such a slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic unless the reduced speed is necessary for safe operation, because of a grade, or in compliance with law.
6. No person shall bring a vehicle to a complete stop upon a highway so as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic unless the stop is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
7. No person may drive any of the following vehicles on a highway at a speed in excess of 55 miles per hour:
    - A motortruck or truck tractor having three or more axles or any motortruck or truck tractor drawing any other vehicle.
    - A vehicle transporting explosives.

Violations of Penal Code **(8)17** for speeds up to 99 mph are an infraction punishable by a fine listed in the table below:

| Amount over Limit | Fine | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | 
| Stop/Unreasonably Slow | $234 |     |
| 1-15 mph | $360 | 1 point on license |
| 16-25 mph | $480 | 1 point on license |
| 26+ mph | $880 | 2 points on license |
| Over 100 mph | $1000 | License suspended for 2 days and vehicle impound. |

Violations of Penal Code **(8)17** for speeds 125(+) mph, regardless of the speed limit, is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine, and or 60 months in county jail with 4 points on license.