---
sidebar_position: 19
---
# [8.19] Parking

1. No vehicle may park, with its driver outside the vehicle, in the following ways:

- In a manner that obstructs a lane of traffic and prevents the flow of traffic.
- In a manner that completely obstructs an alleyway.
- In a manner that obstructs a parking lot entrance.
- Within a marked crosswalk.
- In a manner that obstructs more than two thirds of a sidewalk or pedestrian path.
- On any median.
- Facing opposing traffic.
- Within 15’ of a fire hydrant
- Over 50’ from a roadway
- On any bridges or tunnels.
- On any state highway or freeway.
- On railroad tracks or within range of being struck by a railroad car.
- In the immediate ambulatory parking or bay area of a hospital or clinic.
- In the immediate vicinity of Rodeo Bank's entrance, including the sidewalk adjacent to the metal barriers.
- In front of or obstructing a private driveway or an entrance or exit to a private road or path.

1. No vehicle may park in a manner not permitted by the property owner. Private property may set its own parking rules, so long as they do not obstruct any public roads or sidewalks. Policies may also be set by a property manager authorized by the property owner. State law enforcement agencies may set parking rules for the facilities they maintain.
2. A person who is sitting in a vehicle, with the engine on or off, in any above location and refuses to move at the request of a peace officer or, if private property, by the property manager is guilty of an infraction under this section.
