---
sidebar_position: 28
---
# [8.28] Vehicle Equipment/Unroadworthy Vehicle

1. All motor vehicles operated on a road shall be equipped with the following operational equipment:

:::warning
Golf Carts & ATV's are considered motorcycles for the purposes of this section as long as they only operate on roads with speed limits of 25 mph or less. Golf carts may not operate on roads with speed limits over 25 mph.
:::

- Exception: Law enforcement vehicles
- 2 Headlights
    - Exception: Motorcycles and golf carts may have only 1 headlight
- Headlights must be operated during darkness and/or inclement weather
    - High beams may not be used within 500’ of an oncoming vehicle traveling in the opposite direction or within 300’ behind a vehicle traveling in the same direction.
- 2 Red Taillights
    - Taillights must be operated during darkness and/or inclement weather
- 2 Red Stop lights
    - Stop lights may be combined with taillights
    - Stop lights must operate with the brake pedal is pressed
- 4 Turn signals
    - Not required if hand signals are used except for commercial motor vehicles.
- 1 White backup light
    - Backup lights must operate when the vehicle is moving in reverse
- Windshield that is clear of any obstructions
    - Exception: Motorcycles
- 2 Rear view Mirrors, 1 of which must be on the left side of the car in view of the driver
    - Exception: Motorcycles only require 1 rear view mirror
- Exhaust system must be in use so as to muffle the sound a vehicle emits to a reasonable volume
- Horn
- Horns may only be used when reasonably necessary to insure safe operation. Any other use is a violation of this section
- \*Tires as appropriate
    - Tires must be rubber in nature and no metal may contact the road surface.
- \*Fenders/body panels that are at least as wide as the tire thread
    - Exception: Motorcycles
- Riders of a motorcycle must wear a helmet
    - Exception: Golf Carts
- \*Front and rear bumper
    - Exception: Motorcycle
- \*Brakes
- All cargo and passengers must be secure and located in a location designed for them.

1. All vehicles may not be equipped with any of the following equipment:

- Flashing lights
    - Exception: Emergency vehicles, construction vehicles, utility vehicles, turn signals, and tow trucks
- \*Any blue lights
- \*Any red light visible from the front or side of the vehicle.
- \*Any markings with match emergency vehicles
- Exception: Emergency vehicles
- \*Sirens
- Exception: Emergency vehicles
- \* Aftermarket Hydraulic Equipment that changes the height ride of any portion of the car either temporarily or permanently.
- A vehicle may be equipped with hydraulic equipment as described above, however use of that equipment on a road is a violation of this code.
- \*Armor
- Except for an approved armored car.

1. \*No vehicle may expel any liquid (except water) or smoke onto the road surface.

If the equipment missing is indicated with a \* the vehicle may be impounded at the discretion of the officer. If the equipment missing is indicated with a % the vehicle may be put out of service if it is a commercial motor vehicle

:::info
Each piece of equipment missing or not authorized is a violation of this code. For example a car missing a headlight and a tail light would be charged with 2 counts of this offense.
:::