---
sidebar_position: 38
---
# [8.38] Bicycle Laws

(If citing for this section, please cite the subsections. ie **(8)38**.3 or (8).38.4)

1. Bicyclists have the same rights and responsibilities as motor vehicle drivers.
2. “Bicycle Ride with Traffic” - Bicyclists must travel on the right side of the roadway in the direction of traffic, except when passing, making a legal left turn, riding on a one-way street, riding on a road that is too narrow, or when the right side of the road is closed due to road construction.
3. “Bicyclist on Sidewalk” - Bicyclist 18 years old and over shall not ride on a city sidewalk. Bicyclist 17 years old and under may ride on a city sidewalk.
4. “Bicycles on Highways” - Bicycles (including motorized bicycles) may not be ridden on freeways and expressways.
5. “Bicycles Brakes” - Bicycles must be equipped with a brake that allows an operator to execute a one-braked-wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
6. “Bicycle Lights” - At night a white headlight visible from the front must be attached to the bicycle or the bicyclist. At night a red rear-light visible from the back must be attached to the bicycle or the bicyclist.
7. “Bicyclist Helmet” - Bicyclists and bicycle passengers under age 18 must wear an approved helmet when riding on a bicycle.
8. “Bicyclist Headphones” - Bicyclists may not wear earplugs in both ears or a headset covering both ears. Hearing aids are allowed
9. “Bicyclist Cell Phones” - Bicyclists shall not use a handheld cell phone while riding unless using a hands free device.
10. “Bicyclist vs Pedestrians” - Bicyclists must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians within marked crosswalks or within unmarked crosswalks at intersections.
11. “Bicyclist Parking” - Bicyclists may not leave bicycles on their sides on the sidewalk or park bicycles in a manner which obstructs pedestrians.