---
sidebar_position: 52
---
# [8.52] Vehicle Operation on Designated State Trails

1. A person shall not operate a motorized vehicle that is not deemed an all-terrain vehicle (ATV) or off-road vehicle (ORV) as defined by Title 8 of the Sanctum Penal Code on any state owned and/or maintained trails.
2. A state owned and/or maintained trail is defined by the State of Sanctum as a roadway / pathway primarily composed of dirt and/or gravel and whose name contains the word Trail..
3. Exceptions:
    - A person who owns a private property that is only accessible via a state owned and/or maintained trail and his/her vehicle is capable of navigating such roadways.
    - A person who is renting a property that is only accessible via a state owned and/or maintained trail and his/her vehicle is capable of navigating such roadways.
    - A person who owns or rents a property that would deem them exempt from this law shall maintain proof of such residency / ownership whereas it could be proven to a peace officer that such exempt status exists.
    - Individuals who fall under these exemptions are subject to lawful traffic stops by peace officers with jurisdiction within the vicinity of the stop in efforts to enforce Title 8, Section 52.

- (OOC Note: Trails are indicated on the most up-to-date map as brown roadways indicating they are dirt and labeled as a trail (e.g. Base Trail). Trails that are gray in color are open to motor vehicles. Additionally, the only location that would allow for exemption from this law via ownership / rental status would be the log cabin located on Ridgeline Loop Trail. All other properties within the area are accessible by other means (e.g. state owned and/or maintained roadways.)