---
sidebar_position: 4
---
# [15.4] Interference with a Transit System

1. For the purpose of this section a transit system is any bus, train, subway, light rail, boat, helicopter, or plane operated for the purpose of transporting the general public along a predefined route.
2. A person shall not do any of the following with respect to the property, facilities, or vehicles of a transit system:
3. Operate, interfere with, enter into, or climb on or in, the property, facilities, or vehicles owned or operated by the transit system without the permission or approval of the transit system.
4. Interfere with the operator or operation of a transit vehicle, or impede the safe boarding or alighting of passengers.
5. Extend any portion of the body through a window opening of a transit vehicle in a manner that may cause harm or injury.
6. Throw an object from a transit vehicle.
7. Commit an act or engage in a behavior that may, with reasonable foreseeability, cause harm or injury to any person or property.
8. Violate a notice, prohibition, instruction, or direction on a sign that is intended to provide for the safety and security of transit passengers, or the safe and secure operation of the transit system.
9. Knowingly give false information to a system employee, or contracted security officer, engaged in the enforcement of a system ordinance or a state law, or otherwise obstruct the issuance of a citation for the violation of a system ordinance or a state law.
10. Violate any of the conditions established by a transit system ordinance under which a passenger may board a transit vehicle with a bicycle and where that bicycle may be stowed on the transit vehicle.

:::info
This code may be “stacked” with other penal codes violations as appropriate.
:::